Add rust libraries page (#3828)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io: content/en/docs/languages/rust/libraries.md

---
title: Using instrumentation libraries
linkTitle: Libraries
weight: 40
description: How to instrument libraries an app depends on
---

{{% docs/languages/libraries-intro Rust %}}

## Use Instrumentation Libraries

Each instrumentation library is a [crate](https://crates.io/).

For example,
[the instrumentation library for Actix Web](https://crates.io/crates/actix-web-opentelemetry)
will automatically create [spans](/docs/concepts/signals/traces/#spans) and [metrics](/docs/concepts/signals/metrics) based on
the inbound HTTP requests.

You can find a list of available instrumentation libraries in the

> [registry](/ecosystem/registry/?language=js&component=instrumentation).

Reviewer: It might be good to add https://github.com/tokio-rs/tracing-opentelemetry << Since in the rust community you have many crates which are already instrumented with the `tracing` crate from `tokio-rs` this allows for wiring those into OpenTelemetry.

Author: Good call out, thank you, I can add a few words around that too!

---
title: Using instrumentation libraries
linkTitle: Libraries
weight: 40

> description: How to instrument libraries an app depends on

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: How to use instrumentation libraries
```

Reviewer 2: maybe stick with what we already have in other pages 
https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io/blob/main/content/en/docs/languages/net/libraries.md?plain=1#L2-L4

Author: I picked that description because people might not know what an instrumentation library is, bay having the title "Using instrumentation libraries" this would feel redundant

Reviewer 2: nvm, its inconsistent across languages...https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io/blob/main/content/en/docs/languages/js/libraries.md?plain=1#L5

Author: Eventually we should have descriptions for all the pages, but this is yet another consistency challenge.

If you have strong objections against this description, I can remove it, otherwise we can keep it and refine it later

---

{{% docs/languages/libraries-intro Rust %}}

## Use Instrumentation Libraries

Each instrumentation library is a [crate](https://crates.io/).

> For example,
> [the instrumentation library for Actix Web](https://crates.io/crates/actix-web-opentelemetry)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, the
[instrumentation library for Actix Web](https://crates.io/crates/actix-web-opentelemetry)
```

will automatically create [spans](/docs/concepts/signals/traces/#spans) and

> [metrics](/docs/concepts/signals/metrics) based on the inbound HTTP requests.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[metrics](/docs/concepts/signals/metrics/) based on the inbound HTTP requests.
```

> If your app or one of your dependencies is making use of the create
> [`tracing`](https://crates.io/crates/tracing) you can use

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If your app or one of your dependencies makes use of the
[tracing](https://crates.io/crates/tracing) crate, use
```

> [`tracing-opentelemetry`](https://crates.io/crates/tracing-opentelemetry) for

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[tracing-opentelemetry](https://crates.io/crates/tracing-opentelemetry) to
```

Reviewer 2: tracing-opentelemetry is already listed in the registry as an instrumentation - don't think we need to specially call it out. (Agree it is very popular, but there are some interop issues, not fully sorted out..)

Author: @cijothomas I added this based on a comment from @hdost: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io/pull/3828#discussion_r1460956728

Since you are the rust experts, I would leave it to you to have it or not

Reviewer 2: No need to explicitly list, given it is already listed in the registry. It is not something maintained by the OpenTelemetry organization. (If this changes in the future, we can add it).

Author: let me remove it then once again

Reviewer 4: If memory serves me, there's a ton of adoption of the tokio tracing crate and several folks in the Rust community recommend using that with the OTel exporter. Not a "now" thing but we should probably try to quantify that a bit, because if the community leans towards something we should also lean into it.

Reviewer 2: Yes, it is an extremely popular crate. (we in OTel Rust, does some special handling for supporting that crate in our sdk :))

All I said was there is no need to explicitly recommend/call-out that, especially since there are unresolved issues with the combination of using tracing + otel. The otel rust maintainers and tokio-tracing maintainers are working to resolve them, and once the resolution is there, we can do an explicit call out. (it is unknown what that resolution would be... it could be that tracing-opentelemetry is merged into otel itself or vice-versa or something else. Whatever the resolution will be, it'll be first called out in OTel rust repo itself, and then we can move it to opentelemetry.io/docs too.)

Reviewer 4: Awesome, thanks @cijothomas

Reviewer 4: Let's go with @cijothomas' suggestion for now

> adding OpenTelemetry interoperability.

Author: @hdost like this? wdyt?

Reviewer 3: Change "adding" to "add".

Author: ```suggestion
If your app or one of your dependencies is making use of the create
[`tracing`](https://crates.io/crates/tracing) you can use
[`tracing-opentelemetry`](https://crates.io/crates/tracing-opentelemetry) for
add OpenTelemetry interoperability.
```

> adding OpenTelemetry interoperability.

Author: ```suggestion
add OpenTelemetry interoperability.
```

> You can find a list of available instrumentation libraries in the
> [registry](/ecosystem/registry/?language=js&component=instrumentation).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For a list of available instrumentation libraries, see the
[registry](/ecosystem/registry/?language=js&component=instrumentation).
```

> [registry](/ecosystem/registry/?language=js&component=instrumentation).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[registry](/ecosystem/registry/?language=rust&component=instrumentation).
```
